- [Instructor] Let's get started
by writing a test for HTTP controller.
We will create a new student controller test.
We are going to test
if we can correctly make a request
to students service
and get the response we expect.
We need to assert certain things
about the shape of the response.
First, let's create student controller test class.
A simple unit test will not cover the HTTP layer
so we need to bring Spring Boot
to do HTTP magic for us.
We could use Spring Boot test
but with web MVC test slides
Spring fires up an application context
that contains only the beans needed
for testing a web controller.
These beans will evaluate the annotations
that would be ignored by simple unit test.
We will use mock MVC
Spring's MVC test braver
to perform HTTP requests
on the web in-points
inside our mock web environment.
Since the mock MVC bean
is loaded into the context
we will be able to simply auto wire it for our use.
We will name our method
get student for saved student is returned.
As we make our request
by calling mock MVC perform
with get method to students end point
we expect that HTTP status will be okay.
Body will contain Jason
for which we can use Jason path.
We want to prove
that Jason will contain attribute ID
with value one,
name equal to Mark
and will contain attribute grade with value 10.
Running the test
should give us 404 status
since we haven't implemented the controller yet.
Let's run our test.
There is no end point to talk to.
So let's create an end point.
We will create the class student controller
and annotate it with rest controller.
First thing we need to take care of
is to create new method
get student that accepts ID as parameter
and returns a student.
We will return now for now.
We also need to annotate our method
with get mapping
and add students end point
that accepts ID as a path variable
and maps it to long ID parameter.
Let's rerun our test.
As we can see right now
the controller is handling the request
but is returning a null.
For every failure we get,
we have to do minimal code changes
that make the next assertion go green
because this is a test slide
where we easily did only the web tier
from everything else.
The collaborating object
student service was not available.
We need to provide that object as a mock.
So we are going to add student service
and annotate it with a mock bean annotation
and mock its behavior.
The way mock bean works
is it try to find any bean
in the application context of its type.
If it exists, it will replace it.
If it doesn't exist, it will add it.
Given students service dot
get student by ID
for any long
will return a new student
with ID one,
name Mark
and grade 10.
This test would still fail.
We are not using student service in our controller
so let's go ahead and use it.
Let's add student service bean.
Keep in mind all this favor constructor injection
over filled injection.
Therefore, I will make this dependency
private final
and we need to invoke get student by ID method
which returns a student.
Let's rerun our test
and there you have it.
We got our green test.